Terminology and Concepts
========================

- *Content types*. Content uploaded to a repository is categorized by content types. Instances of content types have a set of shared views defined by the MCpsych taxonomy. Examples for content types are datasets, workflows and models that can be further divided into sub-types. The current list of content types can evolve by creating new ones or changing the views used for their categorization. Instances of content types are named Repositories where various contents (such as dataset, records, workflows) are uploaded.
- *Taxonomy*. The MCpsych taxonomy facilitates hierarchical categorization of content with tags (metadata). 
     - A taxonomy is defined by a set of vocabularies capturing different views of a content-type. For example, the Sleep-data content-type that groups together a number of sleep-data files can be associated with a Subject vocabulary designed for categorizing patients and a Collection-site vocabulary categorizing the institutions collecting the data. The same vocabulary can be associated with several content types. The Base vocabulary is used by all content types. 
     - Vocabularies incorporate a set of *terms* that can be arranged in a flat or hierarchical structure. Terms of vocabularies that are associated with a content-type are used for tagging instances of the content type. Vocabularies define if only a single term or multiple terms can be used as content tags from the vocabulary.
     - Terms themselves have several basic types: they can be simple labels or they can have attributes that are set (subject to constraints) when a content is tagged with the term. These attributes can be a number of different types including strings, integers, and enumerations. Terms be declared as mandatory, recommended or optional. Attributes can have a default value; enumeration options can also contain properties.
     - Taxonomies are modeled by a *Taxonomy Studio*. The Taxonomy Studio precisely specifies the taxonomy model and generates representations used by various UDCP tools. The representation of the full MCpsych taxonomy including all vocabularies is also defined as a content-type, and as such, it can be uploaded to UDCP, evolved, traced, and used in dependency chain. 


- *Dashboard*. The Dashboard is a web-based tool for browsing, uploading, searching, and downloading content to and from the UDCP. Dashboard operations open for a selected content-type. The vocabularies associated with the content-type configure the Dashboard user interface to be used for instantiating terms for uploading new content or searching for already uploaded content.
- *Tag Forms*. Tag forms are tools for selecting terms from vocabularies and instantiating them as tags for uploaded content. Tag forms are used in modeling studios for tagging created content and in the dashboard for uploading content as well as  specifying filters for searching content types. The form editing tool is configured by the model of a selected vocabulary and enforces the constraints that the vocabulary and its terms define. 
- *Repositories*. Repositories are named containers storing content. Repositories are named instances of content types with separate access control constraints.  All stored content in a repository is associated with metadata that are tags from vocabularies defined by the content type.
- *Data Lake*. UDCP stores content in the Azure data lake. Uploaded data to the data lake is immutable. If a change is needed, an updated version needs to be created and uploaded.

